#Managing Log Files
***
WWIV BBS has many processes which generate a lot of log files. This list
catalogs the files, their purpose and some tips for managing log files.

##File Path Locations
File Path          | Description
------------------ | --------------------------------------
```WWIV_DIR```     | BBS Root directory, such as ```C:\\wwiv``` or ```/wwiv```
```WWIV_LOG_DIR``` | Location defined in ```wwivcofig``` for the ```Logs Dir``` or may be set with the environment variable ```WWIV_LOG_DIR``` or the ```--logdir``` command line argument. They will override this setting from wwivconfig.  Like all other paths, if specified as a relative path, it is relative to the bbsdir (aka ```WWIV_DIR``` or ```--bbsdir```). 
```NETWORK_DIR```  | Directory for the network defined in INIT, it could either be  a WWIVnet style network or a FTN network.  Each network will have it's own network directory.
```GFILES_DIR```   | WWIV GFiles directory. Typically ```\wwiv\gfiles```



##Log Files
Log filename  |  File Path | Description  
--- | --- | ---  
NETWORK*.LOG | ```WWIV_LOG_DIR``` | These log files are generated for each of the network*.exe executables. They contain information about the execution of the executable.
WWIVSYC.LOG  | ```WWIV_LOG_DIR``` | Created by wwiv for debug information when using the synchronet FOSSIL VDD and DOSXTRN.EXE commands
*.LOG        | ```WWIV_LOG_DIR``` | Each binary creates log file for it's execution, and will be located in the logdir.
YYMMDD.LOG | ```GFILES_DIR``` | These Daily log files contain the user sessions and commands and actions by those users.
NET.LOG | ```GFILES_DIR``` |  Log of the WWIVNEt connects and Nets processed, how much data and length of connection.
NETDATA#.LOG | ```GFILES_DIR``` | NET38B logs with the connects made, message and data counts.
1617813748NEWS.LOG | ```NETWORK_DIR``` |  These files are frequently 0 length. They are generated by the NEWS (Usenet) processing service.
NEWS.LOG | ```NETWORK_DIR``` |  WINS log of connect to WWIVnet Nodes and NNTP Servers

## Managing Log Files
Many of the Log files generated by WWIV will append to the end of the file until you rename\delete\move the current file after which a new file will be created. Here are some tools\tips to help you with the process.

**WWIV5 Log Mover**  
In the OPS (as in Operations) repository, there is a [wwiv5_logmover.bat](https://github.com/wwivbbs/ops/blob/master/wintools/wwiv5_logmover.bat) batch file 
which will move and rename log files. You just need to schedule it to run as often as you wish. Daily is probably
enough.

**[LogRotate](https://github.com/plecos/logrotatewin)**  
This popular Linux tool also has a windows version. You can use this to daily move, rename and compress log
files resulting in daily versions of long running log files.
