#Managing Log Files
***
WWIV 5.0 BBS has many processes which generate a lot of log files. This list catalogs the files, their purpose and some tips for managing log files.

##Log Files
Log filename  |  File Path | Description  
--- | --- | ---  
1617813748NEWS.LOG | \wwiv |  These files are frequently 0 length. They are generated by the NEWS (Usenet) processing service.
NETWORK.LOG | \wwiv | If you are in a WWIVNet, this will contain entries for every time your mail.bat runs. It will have the NETWORK version run, the arguments passed and the exit codes.
NETWORKB.LOG | \wwiv | Currently used as part of BINKP WWIVNet testing. Not used by most SysOps.
NEWS.LOG | \wwiv |  Contains the SMTP and POP commands passed during MAIL.BAT runs
WWIVSYC.LOG  | \wwiv |  ?? Unknown, has DOSXTRN.EXE commands
YYMMDD.LOG | \wwiv\gfiles | These Daily log files contain the user sessions and commands and actions by those users.
NET.LOG | \wwiv\gfiles |  Log of the WWIVNEt connects and Nets processed, how much data and length of connection.
NETDATA#.LOG | \wwiv\gfiles | NET38B logs with the connects made, message and data counts.
NEWS.LOG | \wwiv\nets\wwivnet |  WINS log of connect to WWIVNet Nodes and NNTP Servers

##Managing Log Files
Many of the Log files generated by WWIV will append to the end of the file until you rename\delete\move the current file after which a new file will be created. Here are some tools\tips to help you with the process.

**WWIV5 Log Mover**  
In the OPS (as in Operations) repository, there is a [wwiv5_logmover.bat](https://github.com/wwivbbs/ops/blob/master/wintools/wwiv5_logmover.bat) batch file 
which will move and rename log files. You just need to schedule it to run as often as you wish. Daily is probably
enough.

**[LogRotate](https://github.com/plecos/logrotatewin)**  
This popular Linux tool also has a windows version. You can use this to daily move, rename and compress log
files resulting in daily versions of long running log files.